---
layout: post
title: "LeetCode Q3. Longest Substring Without Repeating Characters"
time: 2016-12-23
---
Given a string, find the length of the longest subtring without reapeating characters.                          
Example:                                
Given "abcabcbb", the answer is "abc", which the length is 3.                                   
Given "bbbbb", the answer is "b", which the length is 1.                                    
Given "pwwkew", the answer is "wke", which the length is 3.                                 
Note that "pwke" is a subsequence, and it is not a substring.                                       

Solution:

To find the longest substring, we use another array to keep tracking the position of entries in given string.
Set ASCII value of each entries in given string as index of tracking array, and store the index of entries in given string as content of tracking array. Since number 0 is also a valid position, we initial entries of tracking array with -1.
Starting with the first entry in given string, which cooresponding to the index of an entry in tracking array, and assign its index, to that entry in tracking array. At this time our tracking position is current position 0. If later we find an entry in tracking array has value that is not less than current position, then we say we meet this character before. Then we update both the length of no-repeating char and our tracking position with one-position right to the position of the char we first met. And do the whole same process again, until all the characters of given string are all checked.
Let's see the implementation details below.

    int lengthOfLongestSubstring(string s) 
    {
        const int ASCII_MAX = 255;
        int last[ASCII_MAX]; // position the char we met first time
        int start = 0; // current position
        fill(last, last + ASCII_MAX, -1); // initial -1, since 0 is valid position
        int max_len = 0;
        for (int i = 0; i < s.size(); i++) 
        {
            if (last[s[i]] >= start) 
            {
                max_len = max(i - start, max_len);
                start = last[s[i]] + 1;
            }
            last[s[i]] = i;
        }
        return max((int)s.size() - start, max_len); // don't forget last time
    }

Time Complexcity:   O(n)                                
Space Complexcity:  O(n)
